
Citizens Bank Park, the home stadium of the Philadelphia Phillies, is
located within city limits and is accessible by car, train and bus. In
the 81 home games of their 2012 season, the Phillies had an average
attendance of 44,021, for a total of over 3.5 million fan trips. All
these fans generate greenhouse gases traveling to and from the
stadium.

The Phillies have started the ``Red Goes Green'' initiative to reduce
their environmental impact by installing solar panels, planting trees,
and buying offsets for their carbon emmissions. They also offer tips
for fans who want to help with this mission.  No significant efforts
have been made so far, however, to quantify and reduce the
environmental footprint of these fans traveling to and from the
stadium.

This system meets two important needs that would help the Phillies and
their fans further reduce their carbon footprint.

First, it estimates the total amount of emissions currently generated
in based on the average distance traveled by fans and on the types of
transportation they use. These parameters are in turn estimated by a
comprehensive traffic model.

Second, the system provides fans information regarding alternative
travel options to and from the stadium by interfacing with the SEPTA
website. The tool is sensitive to the unusually-high demand placed on
transportation infrastructure around the game, and it gives fans
information on the congestion levels, travel time, and environmental
impact of each travel option.
